# abalone

Abalone is a two-player abstract strategy board game designed by Michel Lalet and Laurent Lévi in 1987. Players are represented by opposing black and white marbles on a hexagonal board with the objective of pushing six of the opponent's marbles off the edge of the board.

## Building

To build the Abalone game project, run the command, `make` in the project directory. This will populate the `/build/` directory with game binaries, the main game binary being named, `abalone_game`.

## Implementing a Player Controller

The Abalone game project implements a generic text based API, using sockets to enable communication between the main board controller and the player or AI opponents. The text API is defined in [API](./API.md).

Once the `abalone_game` binary is started, it initialises a TCP server on port 9191. An example player that allows the user to issue command line commands can be found in `./players/`.

To implement your own player controller, the header file in `build/interface/abaloneInterface.hpp` can be included, and the static library in `build/interface/abaloneInterface.a` can be built alongside your own project. This will give you all the functionality of the API and can be generated by running `make interface`. Alternatively, the interface in [API](./API.md) can be followed to communicate with the server.

The interface defined in `abaloneInterface.hpp` allows the user to implement a class, `class AbaloneClient`. This interface will be used in the constructor of the class, `class AbaloneInterface`, and it is used to communicate information to the client, as well as get information from the client, like, for example, moves.

## Implementing an AI

Implementing an AI is much simpler, since the provided headless player controller can be used. The AI controller only needs to implement a single function that takes in a game state, and returns a move.

To implement the AI, an implementor needs to include `build/interface/abaloneAI.hpp`, and build their project by linking in `build/interface/abaloneInterface.a`. The `AbaloneAI` class allows the implementor to implement the single function, and provide it to an instance of an `AbaloneAIController` class.

## All Command Line Options

## Roadmap

- Option to start server in a tournament or competition configuration.